---
title: Fulfillment by Amazon (FBA) | How to start a business online from scratch
img_path: /images/AMAZON-FBA.webp
img_alt: Snow covered mountains
seo:
  type: stackbit_page_meta
  title: Theme Style Guide
  description: A reference for suggested typographic treatment and styles for your content
  extra:
    - name: 'og:type'
      value: website
      keyName: property
    - name: 'og:title'
      value: Theme Style Guide
      keyName: property
    - name: 'og:description'
      value: >-
        A reference for suggested typographic treatment and styles for your
        content
      keyName: property
    - name: 'og:image'
      value: images/6.jpg
      keyName: property
      relativeUrl: true
    - name: 'twitter:card'
      value: summary_large_image
    - name: 'twitter:title'
      value: Theme Style Guide
    - name: 'twitter:description'
      value: >-
        A reference for suggested typographic treatment and styles for your
        content
    - name: 'twitter:image'
      value: images/6.jpg
      relativeUrl: true
template: page
subtitle: >-
  Learn how Fulfillment by Amazon (FBA) business works, pros, cons, and how to
  leverage the power of knowledge and organization to start a successful Amazon
  FBA business. The Ultimate Guide For entrepreneurs and small business owners.
---
# How to Start an Amazon FBA Business from Scratch?

We have all heard the saying "If you can't beat them, join them" Well, this is true. Amazon has been in the game for years and has cornered the market. That doesn't mean you have to join Amazon, instead, you can take advantage of Fulfillment by Amazon (FBA).

No matter what size business you're planning on starting, Amazon FBA has been a great success for many people.

The FBA business model has helped thousands of business owners start a profitable business online.

 

## What is Amazon FBA?

FBA, or Fulfillment By Amazon, is a service offered by Amazon that allows sellers to simplify their order fulfillment and shipping processes.

If you're wondering what fulfillment is, it's the method of storing, packaging, and delivering orders, as well as dealing with returns and exchanges.

FBA helps you sell your products on Amazon by sending them to Amazon fulfillment centers, which pick, pack, and ship your products as well as handle customer service.

 

## How Does Amazon FBA Work? What is the business model?

Amazon FBA is a business where you sell items through Amazon for a fee.

It is a profitable business model because the revenue generated by selling an item on Amazon is higher than what you spend to sell that item.

The detailed business model may seem complex, but its simplest version is:

***Your profit is equal to the revenue generated by the sum of the sales of your products minus the fees collected by Amazon for fulfillment handling.***

We will discuss all the parameters that could affect the business model later.

 

## The Pros and Cons of FBA

### Pros

Amazon is one of the most recognized brands in the world. It’s not just a retailer, but a technology company that helps customers buy things they want when they want, and then ship them right to their door.

Using FBA will help you save money and free up time, and make your goods available to a worldwide audience.

With Amazon handling all the complicated and boring aspects of doing business online, you can focus on your business.

*   **Shipping and Logistics**: You won't have to worry about stocks as long as you keep track of the listings.

*   **Return Management**: besides sales, FBA handles returns.

*   Customer Service Management: Amazon provides its customer service for FBA sellers.

*   **More Storage Space**: Thanks to Amazon's large warehouse network, you have essentially unlimited storage space at your disposal.

 

### Cons

FBA might not be the right solution for your needs. Here are some factors to consider.

*   **Cost**: FBA is an excellent service, but it is not free. Because of the way amazon (FBA fee) fees are calculated, this service is less suited to low-cost things, so you'll want to choose your products carefully.

*   **More Returns**: This may result from Amazon's open return policy.

*   **Long-Term Storage Fees**: Items left in storage for a long period cost more.

*   **Product Prep Requirements**: Before you send your products to Amazon, you need to ensure that they are prepared according to FBA requirements.

*   **Amazon FBA Fee Payment**: You cannot use the next sale to pay for the previous sale. Amounts owed to Amazon will be deducted before any payments are made to you. To cover fees, you need a sufficient balance.

 

For Amazon (FBA fee) fees, see[ ](https://sellercentral.amazon.com/hz/fba/profitabilitycalculator/index?lang=en_US)[Amazon FBA Fees Calculator](https://sellercentral.amazon.com/hz/fba/profitabilitycalculator/index?lang=en_US).



## How Can I Get Started with Amazon FBA?

Getting started with Amazon FBA Programs is very simple if you have your product ready to sell.

You start by creating an Amazon Seller Account and activate FBA into it. Then create your product listing.

After that, you create your product listing and select the fulfillment center you want to go with.

Finally, you send and track your shipment.

That's it, now you can get your first sale!

***... Wait, is it as simple as that? ... Unfortunately, no!***

As with everything in life, the process is not as straightforward as it seems to be.

To be successful with Amazon FBA Business, you need to work hard and smart before you get your first sale.

But with focused knowledge and organization, you'll be on your way to success.

To help you with that, we get you helpful tools to go from zero to hero with FBA.

  

## How to Sell on Amazon FBA Program?

Every step in the Ultimate Guide above is a small action to take in your journey as an FBA business owner.

Don't be intimidated by the number of steps, they are micro-actions, which means you haven't to overwhelm your process.

To make the process simpler, we divide the checklist into milestones and tasks.

If you have ever worked with a project management system, you can consider the FBA adventure like a project. You set your goals, milestones, and tasks to achieve.

We aimed to keep the guide as simple as possible so that you can take action rapidly and not get into the analysis paralysis.

For a better understanding, each milestone of the guide will be a subject of a blog post.

 

## Amazon FBA The Ultimate Step By Step Guide.

### Milestone 1: Niche Brainstorming

*   Go to Amazon & Develop categories, subcategories, and sub-subcategories.

*   Write a list of all the niches that attract/interest you.

*   Groupe categories in 2 Type Niches: Audience Niche vs Product Niche.

*   Groupe Niches in 3 categories: Passion vs Lifestyle vs Problem.

*   Eliminate Mass Market categories.

*   Eliminate Tiny Market categories.

 

### Milestone 2: Product Research (products to sell on Amazon FBA)

*   Set Goals,

*   Number of products to pre-select (target 50 ).

*   Price range (avoid low ticket price products).

*   Size (avoid oversized products).

*   Weight (avoid heavy products).

*   Demand and revenue.

*   Competition.

*   Search products.

*   Do 1-week Tracking,

*   Check Sales Figures (the 999 Cart Method).

*   Check best seller rank (BSR).

 

### Milestone 3: Product Research | Top 5 Selection of Amazon FBA products

*   Search on Alibaba estimated MOQ (Minimum Order Quantity) and Item Cost.

*   Look for the product issues to improve.

*   Look For Bundling Options.

*   Check estimated ROI (Return On Investment) at least 100% & 30% Profit Margin.

 

### Milestone 4: Sourcing Top 5 | 1st Stage

*   Send Initial RFQ (Request for quotation).

*   Build Rapports.

*   Select 3 Best Suppliers.

*   Search for FAB Fees.

*   Search for Duties% (need HTS CODE).

*   Calculate Landing Cost, LC = ((FOB + Shipping + Insurance) \* Duties%) \* VAT 20%).

*   Calculate Profit, P = (Est. Sale Price - Landing Cost).

*   Select the Top Product To Go With.

 

### Milestone 5: Sourcing Top 1 | 2nd Stage

*   Request Samples.

*   Ask Top Suppliers about the product design specifications.

*   Ask Top Suppliers about the product testing certificates.

 

… While waiting for the samples

### Milestone 6: Branding | Brainstorming

*   Find a Niche Brand Name (open-ended name).

*   Find a Product (Brand) Name.

*   Start Planning Packaging ASAP,

*   Packaging Requirements.

*   Customizing Product Packaging.

 

### Milestone 7: Build Relationship

*   Communicate with suppliers.

*   Order competitor products (optional).

*   Form relationships with shipping & inspection companies.

 

… When the samples arrive

### Milestone 8: Product Validation (FBA Amazon Fees and Profits)

*   Inspect package, stress test product, etc.

*   Choose Final Supplier.

*   Get Formal Quote.

*   Calculate Landing Cost, LC = ((FOB + Shipping + Insurance) \* Duties%) \* VAT 20%).

*   Calculate Amazon FBA Fees

*   Calculate Profit, P = (Est. Sale Price - Landing Cost).

*   Is The Final Product & Profit Are Okay To Go With?

*   If so, get a Barcode (EAN).

*   Else, repeat from Milestone 4 with the next product on your Top 5 list.

 

### Milestone 9: Company Formation

*   Set up the Company.

*   Set up the Company Bank Account.

*   Get Accountant.

*   Research Product Liability Insurance.

*   Get EORI Number.

 

### Milestone 10: Amazon FBA (US, UK, EUR) Account Set Up

*   Set up an Amazon Seller Account.

*   Add FBA to your account.

*   Create a Basic Product Listing.

*   Get FNSKU.

 

### Milestone 11: Branding | Realization

*   Contact Designer & Have Logo.

*   Contact Designer & Have package designed.

*   Register Domain and Setup Website.

 

### Milestone 12: Ordering

*   Create a Master Budget.

*   Get a 30/70 Payment Plan.

*   Select Supplier Inspection.

*   Send Payment.

*   Send Logo & Package Design (with EAN & FNSKU).

 

… When production starts

### Milestone 13: Listing Creation

*   Get Photos.

*   Get Graphic Designed Photos.

*   Reverse ASIN Search.

*   Keyword Research.

*   Get Optimized Title.

*   Get Optimized Description.

*   Get Optimized Bullet Points.

*   Get Optimized Backend Keywords.

*   Create Listing.

 

### Milestone 14: Launch Preparation

*   Create Amazon PPC Automatic Campaign.

*   Create Amazon PPC Manual Campaign.

*   Set Up Auto-Responder.

*   Create Coupon Code Campaign (search 3rd party services).

 

… When production ends

### Milestone 15: Shipping Plan

*   Confirm End Of Production.

*   Get Shipment Dimensions From Supplier.

*   Create Shipping Plan in Amazon Seller Account.

*   Print Labels & Send to Supplier.

*   Request Product Inspection (inspection company from milestone 7).

*   Request Tracking ID #.

*   Pay Customs Duty and VAT Upon Arrivals.

*   Wait For Amazon To Receive Delivery.

 

… Shipment received by Amazon warehouse

### Milestone 16: Launching

*   Turn on PPC Campaigns.

*   Turn on 3rd party Campaigns (coupon code, discounts & others).

*   Monitor BSR Rankings.

 

### Milestone 17: Optimization

*   Wait 1-2 weeks for data.

*   Pull Search Term Report after Launch.

*   Delete Keywords that don't Make Money.

*   Create a New Manual Campaign.

*   Optimize PPC Campaigns.

 

### Milestone 18: Maintenance & Inventory

*   Track Customer Reviews.

*   Track Inventory.

*   Track Profits.

*   Scale PPC.

*   Use Social Media For Added Exposure.

*   Continue Optimizing Product Page.

 

P.S. the guide above is worth a dozen of the best Amazon FBA Training & Courses
